Aight, I'm realizing somthing, that to clearly describe this system the contracts have to be described in terms of something more fundemental. I'm super familar with the entity component system design pattern, so we'll just call them components, and the actors are entities. I know the word "actor" is used differently in other parts of computer programming like the "actor" model, and there are paralells here... mesage passing, asyncronous stuff is happening, but it's not *exactly* what I mean, and to simply call them entities, well in game dev for example, a rock is an entity, the player is an entity.

To calll them agents, I also find it a bit confusing, cause like in opencode for example, an agent is basicly a system prompt with a list of tools and permissions.

but when we actually talk baout these systems, the agent is the running session.

If we called it just "session" then there is also space to confuse it with a browser session.

## What is an actor?


An actor is the following:
- an entity (a unique id)
- an association with an org
- memory
- A receipt log (an append only ledger of self recorded observations)
- a single associated agent contract (a primary directive)
- possible many directly associated obligations
- possible many directly associated capabilities
- possibly many directly associated roles


## What is a contract?
- at least one explicit entrance condition (trigger)
- at least one explicit exit condition (fulfilment)
- at least one actor bound by the contract
- An enforcing entity
- An acting constitutional framework of governance (reasonable assumed defaults for situations unspecified in the contract)

## The thing that is missing: Constituional layer
In the real world, a contract does not mean very much if there is not a (reasonably) neutral
governing body to hold those bound to the agreement to their obligations
This is where the policies belong?
